All right now we know how to say in person our data now let's take a look at how we can search and find
data that we need.
To do that I'm going to create another product and say we need to do a repository so that we can search
and find the data that we need.
So let's start by adding another product.
I'll start by product to add new product and this product is going to have to name as another tester
product
and description.
It's going to be the same with the previous one so I'll copy that and paste it right here.
And the category is going to be just the yen and the type is going to be something else this time.
And let's say we want a custom product and for price this time we're going to say it's 15.
All right.
Now let's say you are data
and calling repositories say method and I'm just giving it to product 2.
And now let's run our application to see if everything's all right.
And see if we can find our product to our database.
So I'm running our application
applications is started and as you can see in the log here we have to insert statements right now but
these two statements says that the persistent product object into database two times just like we did
here.
We said we want it to persist product one first and then we created another product as part or two.
And we saved that too.
So in H-2 database we should be seeing two records of products.
So let's take it out right now.
I'm going to open up Firefox
I'm going to go to localhost
ADHD and H-2.
All right we have our database Logan page.
Let's just test our connection again.
It's OK.
And now let's connect
areon Let's check out our product table and run our query.
Here we go.
We have two distinct products one with a different ID.
And the other one with a completely different ID automatically generated by hibernate for us and the
category is test in both products and the description is also the same but we changed the name and price
and also the type of the product this time.
So how are we going to find these products from our database.
How are we going to query these products.
To do that we're going to use First the simple method of the JPA and I'm just going to show it to you.
Now JP has the fine methods built and with it so that you can effortlessly use these methods to find
the object that you need.
So let's take out these methods for a second find all method is automatically generated for us to bring
a list of products as shown here.
So it's a very convenient way that we can get all the products in the database without even writing
a single line of code.
And the other ones are various utility methods and you can make use of them too.
And as you can see here we have a find one with the ID method.
What this math does is if you know the idea of a product you can query for that and you can get the
product right away.
Let's get back to our focus and here and let's just find all the products that we need.
So I'm going to just use the find all method and of course this find all method is going to return me
a list of products.
So I'm going to say that now list of products and it's going to be products.
All right.
So let's just print the list out so we can see what products we get with this method.
So I'm going to make it for each loop and say that for each product and product in products
I want to print out everything with these products and to printed out beautifully.
Let's just add a logo to our class and how it looked just as these lines here to do that.
I'm going to go up right here and say private logo and I'm going to use so 4G because it say very convenient
method of logging things out.
So I'm going to say private lager and I'm going to name a log.
And so I'm going to get the logger and I'm going to use a factory for that.
Again a cell for a logo factory and I'm going to get wagger and I'm going to get the class name in the
method so I'm going to say repository application class.
All right.
So let's just make use of this lager here and I'm going to say Lagat.
And as you can see here we have lots of different options for logging lots of different Woggles we have
Infeld debug and error and you can also say that you can warn people with your logs and you can trace
out the logs for exceptions and other things and again you can warn people at the right level of was.
All right.
So let's get back to it and I'm going to say I'm going to use in full level here because I'm just trying
to list out the products that I have.
So I'll say
products found and I'm going to print out each product
I'm just going to say strenge so we can get the complete object within the line.
All right.
So let's run our application for a second time and see what's going on.
I'm rerunning our application now
and here is coming up.
All right.
We have products found but we have a problem here because instead of the product we have dereferences
of the product object rented out.
So let's just go and fix that to fix that.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to go to the product class and I'm going to generate the two screen
method to do that.
I'm going to hit command and I'm going to say to a string and I need all the fields to display.
All right I'm going to hit.
OK.
And here we go.
Let's just rerun our application and see our log for the second time and with the purified version
our application is coming up again.
And this time we should see the correct objects.
Here we go.
We have our products found in the database.
And as you can see the first product with a different ID and the other one with a completely different
ID and a name for the first product tester product on the other hand.
The other one is another test product and the types are different.
And as you can see prices are also different isn't that easy because all we used as the find method
of the repository.
And again that's coming from the JP repository.
It's already provided for us.
So now we know how to find all the objects in our repository but how about the custom queries that we
need.
For example we might want to search for a specific type specific name or even a specific prize or a
category.
How are we going to do that.
The way to do that in JPA and spring Deda is named methods named methods that provide the natural way
of curing your data.
And it's very beautiful.
Now let's take a look at it and write down some queries for our repository.
To do that we're going to write down some methods in our interface in our product repository interface
and with the help of the JPA repository our interface methods is going to be created as queries against
the product repository.
And there are going to be quarried in the database.
That's a very very convenient way of carrying data and it's going to be amazing to know about this and
to work with this type of repositories.
So let's start by adding simple queries to our repository.
First I'm going to say that I want to get product in the result and I want to find by
all right and for the finding process to be actually done.
I have to inject the type as the string because in the product POJO we said that type is going to be
a string.
So all provide the same name in the method for our interface method.
And with that JPA is going to find a type for us and returned a product with that type.
That's all you need to have your custom query.
This is a very basic query but this is going to be amazing to know about because it's just a line of
code and you don't have to implement anything any select statements or anything else just like that.
All right.
The named methods of the JPA repository by the help of spring is a very unique way of querying the data
in any kind of repository.
You can't even use a Monga D-B or read this or anything you can think about Pasqua school or anything
else.
And in our case we're running our Currie's against the H-2 database because of the spring data as abstractions
we can again query against the any kind of database.
So now let's work out how this query is going to turn out to do that.
I'm going to go back to our application class and I'm going to say I want a product and this is going
to be the result product and I will say that product repository and all coal find by type.
And let's take out the types that we set in the first product.
We said the type was general and in the second one we said it was custom.
So that's Kuria our general type of product first and see if we can just get that one.
All right.
And to do that I'm just going to comment out these lines so we can see what's going on in the background.
Actually the one that we're interested in and I'm going to log out this product and say your general
type of product found and that's going to be our result product and I'm going to say to strenge.
All right let's just rerun our application and see what's going on with the logs.
Our application is booting up now
and getting the logs printed out and here we go in the line before the last one is the line that we're
interested in.
So you can see that general type of product found and it was this one out with the ID and a name tester
product and the category was test.
Also the price was 0 and you might remember this from the first tutorial that we worked on this was
our first product.
All right we could find a product that we're interested in.
So now let's try this out with the customer 1 see if we can find that too.
I'm just reroute our application
Our application is starting up now
and here we go just don't worry about the look that we printed out here but we have found our product
and it's with this ID.
And as you can see the name is another tester product and this was the second product that we saved
into our repository as you've seen in this example it's so very beautiful way to work on your repository
with just a simple line of statement.
And let's just improve our Currie's this time and and try to write down some complex examples.
This time we're going to find against the description and category of fields.
So as you'll remember our descriptions for the two objects as same and our categories also the same
as test.
So let's just make use of that and try to find these objects.
So as a result again we're going to get a list of products.
So I'll say list of products and find by description and category.
And as the parameters what we're going to say we first need a description as to query.
And the second one is going to be category.
All right.
So let's just wrap up what we've done here.
What we said that we wanted a list of products and Arcuri is just like this we first sat we need the
description in our query as this object.
And we also said we want to query against the category and just a note here the find method works just
like this.
You provided object that you need the property that you need to query against the repository and it
brings them up as the natural language that you provide.
So in this case it's going to say that and description equals description and category equals category.
All right let's make use of that named method to do that.
I'm going to switch back to our application class and I'm going to say I need a list of products as
the result and that is going to be results and I'll say I need find by description and category.
So our first parameter and that's description it's going to be this is a test product.
So I'm just going to copy and paste it.
And our second parameter is the category and our categories for both object was test.
So I'll say test and to print out result I'm going to say for each product product in results and I
want to see that log that info and
matching results are
and I'll say product strength.
All right to see clearly what we've done here.
I'll just comment out these lines so we can focus on the line that we're interested in and I'm going
to rerun our application
and their application is starting up now.
And here we go.
Matching results are.
And as you can see we found two of our objects in the database in our repository.
And again the first one is the product one.
And the second one that is out to the console is the second product product too right.